---
number: "072"
title: Passwords
type:
  - discussion
people:
  - Gabe Weatherhead
  - Erik Hess
topics:
  - reading
banner: /assets/img/marvin-safes.jpg
caption: '[SMU](https://www.flickr.com/photos/smu_cul_digitalcollections/8706011064/)'
download: >
  http://www.buzzsprout.com/7417/162766-072-passwords.mp3
player: '<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/142686656%3Fsecret_token%3Ds-O22Bx&color=ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_artwork=true"></iframe>'
soundcloudurl: 072-passwords
summary: "Have you ever had to reset a password? Have you ever forgotten the new password after you reset it? Gabe and Erik share their password struggles and talk about how they're trying to solve them, mostly with the help of 1Password."
showtype: interview
post_images: ""
post_files: ""
---

{{ theme:partial src="section-header" title="Have You Ever Been Forced to Reset a Password?" url="{{ soundcloudurl }}" time="0:00" }}

* [How an Epic Blunder by Adobe Could Strengthen Hand of Password Crackers](http://arstechnica.com/security/2013/11/how-an-epic-blunder-by-adobe-could-strengthen-hand-of-password-crackers/)

#### The Applications

{{ theme:partial src="app" show="{{ number }}" image="1password.png" name="1Password" description="1Password gives you the security you need in today's online world without slowing you down. 1Password makes you more productive while simultaneously increasing your security with strong, unique passwords for all your accounts." price="$24.99" developer="https://agilebits.com/onepassword" appstore="https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/1password-password-manager/id443987910?mt=12" }}

{{ theme:partial src="app" show="{{ number }}" image="dashlane.png" name="Dashlane" description="Dashlane is the best, free password manager and secure digital wallet for your iPhone, iPad, and other devices. " price="Free/$19.99 per Year" developer="https://www.dashlane.com/" appstore="https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/dashlane-password-manager/id552383089?mt=12" }}

{{ theme:partial src="app" show="{{ number }}" image="lastpass.png" name="LastPass" description="LastPass is the last password you'll ever have to remember. Once setup you'll have your login and password data on your PC and your iPhone/iPad seamlessly synced via a Host Proof Hosting method which does not allow LastPass (or anyone else) access to your sensitive data." price="Free/$12 per Year" developer="https://lastpass.com/" appstore="https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/lastpass-for-premium-customers/id324613447?mt=8" }}

{{ theme:partial src="section-header" title="Creating Good Passwords" url="{{ soundcloudurl }}" time="3:49" }}

{{ theme:partial src="xkcd" alt="To anyone who understands information theory and security and is in an infuriating argument with someone who does not (possibly involving mixed case), I sincerely apologize." title="Password Strength" show="{{ number }}" img="http://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/password_strength.png" url="http://xkcd.com/936/" }}

> {{ theme:partial src="aside-header" voice="gabe" text="" }}
>
> One day, I walked my spouse through creating a strong password for 1Password. I explained the importance of using something that wasn't easily guessed. All was going great and felt pretty good about myself. When we finished, she pulled out her little notebook and immediately wrote the strong password down.
> 
> The next time, I used a phrase that she could remember but I also understood that nothing I said would change the fact that she was going to write the password down for at least the first week she used it. By using a phrase, it's unlikely anyone would even suspect that it was a password.

{{ theme:partial src="section-header" title="Sharing Passwords" url="{{ soundcloudurl }}" time="14:00" }}

* [How I lost my $50,000 Twitter Username](http://arstechnica.com/security/2014/01/how-i-lost-my-50000-twitter-username/)

{{ theme:partial src="section-header" title="Storing Passwords" url="{{ soundcloudurl }}" time="20:00" }}

> {{ theme:partial src="aside-header" voice="gabe" text="" }}
>
> Remember, passwords aren't the only pieces of sensitive information we need to track and recall. 1Password is a secure note system too. I store a lot of different things in 1Password, partly because it's very secure and partly because I like to keep all of it in one place. Here's some of the stuff I store in 1Password. It's not all sensitive but it's secure and available any time.
> 
> - Family info (social security, maiden names, birth counties and hospitals)
> - Tax IDs for business
> - Mortgage information and scans
> - Day Care information
> - Old Credit Card details
> - A list of previous and expired passwords
> - Codes for emergency key lock box
> - Photos of various super saver cards
> - Photos of social security cards
> - Car VIN numbers
> - Reset code for car stereo
> - Scans of medical directives
> 
> The great thing about adding scans and photos to 1Password is that it's instantly available to me with my iPhone, iPad or Mac and if it's even mildly sensitive I know where it is.

{{ theme:partial src="section-header" title="Managing Passwords" url="{{ soundcloudurl }}" time="23:10" }}

{{ theme:partial src="section-header" title="Syncing Passwords" url="{{ soundcloudurl }}" time="" }}

> {{ theme:partial src="aside-header" voice="gabe" text="Sharing Vaults" }}
>
> The hardest part of getting someone to start using a password manager is getting them to remember to use it at all. By pre-populating it with a bunch of useful information, you give them a big reason to even open the app. Once they see the value, hopefully they add their own stuff too.
> 
> The latest version of 1Password for the Mac now allows access to multiple vaults. This is a great way to create and manage a vault that you share with a family member.
> 
>  Sharing a vault in 1Password is possible because of Dropbox sharing. Agile Bits have created a robust system but the real work of syncing is performed by Dropbox. [There's a good tutorial available](http://blog.agilebits.com/2013/11/13/1password-tip-how-to-create-share-a-vault-with-family-or-coworkers-mac/) on the Agile Bits Web site.
>  
>  I find that the value of sharing a vault is all in the ease of helping to administer passwords for my family. When I update a password for a bank account or cable TV, I can easily edit the entry for both my wife and I. I keep two separate vaults, one for me and one for my wife, so passwords must be updated in each vault separately.

{{ theme:partial src="section-header" title="Refreshing Passwords" url="{{ soundcloudurl }}" time="" }}

{{ theme:partial src="section-header" title="Password Tips" url="{{ soundcloudurl }}" time="23:50" }}

> {{ theme:partial src="aside-header" voice="gabe" text="Passwords for Humans" }}
>
> Seriously, take it easy on the rules about password complexity for anything that you must remember. In my experience, people give up pretty quickly and just start cheating. They write it down or end up making the passwords too obvious and easily guessed.
> Not all systems accept space characters as part of the password either. Because the space character was only invented in 2003.


> {{ theme:partial src="aside-header" voice="gabe" text="Launch Center Pro" }}
> 1Password is a little slow on the draw when you just want to get in a do a search. Launch Center Pro takes a lot of the fiddling out of the process.
> 
> [Here's a good source](http://philgr.com/blog/onepassword-with-launch-center-pro-list-and-prompt-fallback) of a complex 1Password action for Launch Center Pro. Phillip is crafty with URL schemes and in particular has some nice examples of Launch Center Pro actions.
> 
> I use a [Launch Center Pro action](http://launchcenterpro.com/8whxqy) (you can install it from that link) to open a URL on the clipboard in the 1Password browser almost every day. Open in 1Password is almost always more convenient if I need to end up logging into a site or creating a password.

> I also regularly use [a LCP action](http://launchcenterpro.com/67g68c) that prompts for input and then searches in 1Password. This takes far less time than navigating to the 1Password search box.
> 


> {{ theme:partial src="aside-header" voice="gabe" text="Explaining Passwords" }}
>
> One of the hardest things to do is to explain password security "best practices" to an average "Alice" or "Joe". I've tackled the discussion about changing passwords with my family and they look at me like I suggested they change their first name. Passwords are looked at like house keys. As long as you keep them in your pocket, there's nothing to worry about. But I try to explain it more like, a valet car service. You give them your key and then you have no idea what they do with it for the other 99% of the time you have a relationship with them.

> {{ theme:partial src="aside-header" voice="erik" text="Alfred" }}
> Erik: Alfred integration

> {{ theme:partial src="aside-header" voice="potatowire" text="Until next week" }}
> 
> Well, that's it for this week. If you have anything that you'd like to add to or correct in the show notes you can find me on Twitter [@potatowire](http://twitter.com/potatowire/), or feel free to send an email to me at potatowire dot com.
